# Smart-Traffic-Management-System'
Traffic management has been an issue and has created havoc since a lot of time and has caused many problems in India. Efficient traffic management is the goal of the road industry and is very important and needed in today’s world so that each and every congestion can be managed smoothly creating spaces and making all the people reach their destination on time and also that the people complete their voyage safely. When vehicles are fully or partially stopped for an epoch of time it is known as a traffic jam or a traffic congestion.  Traffic congestion is a condition on road networks and crossroads that occurs as use magnifies, and is described by slower speeds of on-road vehicles, longer voyage times, and augmented conveyance queuing. The project basically focuses on smart traffic management using automated systems and python programming is implemented in this project and we have also used Microsoft Azure and Custom Vision API as the external free software.

In this project I propose a smart traffic control system which manages the congested traffic and allows smooth flow of traffic without any human intervention in between. The model that we have proposed also segregates the number of vehicles on the road into 4 categories that is car, bus, truck and motorcycle. The model also allows the emergency vehicles like ambulances and fire brigades to pass smoothly and gives priority to the lane having the emergency vehicle so that the patient does not suffer any serious consequences due to traffic. 

A web camera is placed on all the lanes that is at all the sides in a traffic signal. The camera continuously captures the images of the lanes. In our project we have integrated a total of four lanes. The model first checks for emergency vehicles if it is present in any of the lane and then allows the lane with maximum number of cars to go green. The model divides into the four types of vehicles which can also be used as an important information to use for the government. The model also can be used to detect the number of walkers on the road and thus the information can be of great use to the government. The model that has been developed can learn from its mistakes and thus is a self-learning model. 

The model combines the use of python as well as Microsoft Azure in order to train, test and validate the model. 
